.TH KR_RANGE 3 "11 Jul 2016"

.SH NAME
kr_range \- Get ranges of ip address about given Country or ISP.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "#include <krisp.h>"
.br
.BI "typedef struct " req_range " {"
.br
.BI "    char            " err[1024] ";  // get error messages"
.br
.BI "    char            " data[1024] "; // searching name of country or isp"
.br
.BI "    short           " code ";       // search type. KRISP_GET_COUNTRY or KRISP_GET_ISP"
.br
.BI "    short           " verbose ";    // verbose option"
.br
.BI "    int             " count ";      // rows of ranges"
.br
.BI "    KRNET_RANGE     " * ranges ";   // data of ranges"
.br
.BI "} " KRNET_REQ_RANGE ";"
.br
.BI "int kr_range (KRNET_REQ_RANGE *" range ", KR_API *" db ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI kr_range
api searches whole range of given Country or ISP. Basically
.BI kr_range
API enable to search with original krisp database.

.PP
After call the
.BI kr_range
api, you must free
.BI ranges
member of
.BI KRNET_REQ_RANGE.


.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
On success, return 
.BI 0 
and otherwise return 
.BI 1. 
No search result is regared as success. Only DB error 
is regarded as failure.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <krisp.h>

int main (void) {
    KR_API * db;
    KRNET_API isp;
    char * addr = "kns.kornet.net";
    char * database = NULL;
    char err[1024];

    if ( kr_open (&db, database, err) == false ) {
        fprintf (stderr, "ERROR Connect: %s\\n", err);
        return 1;
    }

    isp.verbose = false;
    // defined safecpy_256 in krispapi.h
    safecpy_256 (isp.ip, addr);
    if ( kr_search (&isp, db) ) {
        printf ("ERROR: %s\\n", isp.err);
        kr_close (&db);
        return 1;
    }

    /*
     * long2ip is include libipcalc.
     * https://github.com/Joungkyun/libipcalc/wiki/API-long2ip
     * long2ip is returned in a statically allocated buffer, which
     * subsequent calls will overwrite. For thread safe, use long2ip_r.
     */
    printf ("%-15s %-15s %-20s", ip, isp.ip, isp.icode);
    printf ("%-15s ", long2ip (isp.start));
    printf ("%-15s %s", long2ip (isp.end), isp.iname);

    //
    // Get Ranges
    //
    {
        KRNET_REQ_RANGE range;
        int i;
        ulong mask;
        char start[16];
        char end[16];

        range.code = KRISP_GET_ISP;
        range.verbose = 0;
        range.ranges = NULL;
        range.count = 0;

        memest (range.data, 0, 1024);
        SAFECPY_1024 (range.data, isp.iname);

        if ( kr_range (&range, db) ) {
            fprintf (stderr, "ERROR: %s\\n", range.err);
            SAFEFREE (range.ranges);
            kr_close (&db);
            return 1;
        }

        printf (
            "\\nRange Traget: %s (%d line%s)\\n\\n",
            range.data,
            range.count,
            range.count ? "s" : ""
        );

        for ( i=0; i<range.count; i++ ) {
            long2ip_r (range.ranges[i].start, start);
            mask = guess_netmask (range.ranges[i].start, range.ranges[i].end);
    
            if ( network (range.ranges[i].start, mask) == range.ranges[i].start )
                printf ("%s/%d\\n", start, long2prefix (mask));
            else
                printf ("%s %s\\n", start, long2ip_r (range.ranges[i].end, end));
        }
    }

    kr_close (&db);

    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
JoungKyun.Kim <http://joungkyun.github.com>

.SH BUGS
Report to https://github.com/Joungkyun/libkrisp/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2016 JoungKyun.Kim <http://oops.org>

This api is follows
.BI LGPL 2.1

.SH "SEE ALSO"
kr_open(3), kr_close(3), kr_search_ex(3), long2ip(3)
